| [home page](https://cfrias1.github.io/portfolio) | [visualizing debt](visualizing-government-debt) | [critique by design](critique-by-design) | [final project I](final-project-part-one) | [final project II](final-project-part-two) | [final project III](final-project-part-three) |

# Visualizaing Government Debt Assignment
## Part 1: Debt to GDP Ratio, 2021 - Directly from Website 
<iframe src="https://data.oecd.org/chart/7bcE" width="860" height="645" style="border: 0" mozallowfullscreen="true" webkitallowfullscreen="true" allowfullscreen="true"><a href="https://data.oecd.org/chart/7bcE" target="_blank">OECD Chart: General government debt, Total, % of GDP, Annual, 2020</a></iframe>

## Part 2: Debt to GDP Ratio, 1995 to 2021 - Using Flourish
Using [Flourish](https://flourish.studio/), the Dept-to-GDP ratio for numerous countries was presented on a sparklines chart utilizing OEO data from 1995 to 2021. Utilizing such a software allows for greater interactivity than a static chart. 
<div class="flourish-embed flourish-chart" data-src="visualisation/14973910"><script src="https://public.flourish.studio/resources/embed.js"></script></div>

## Part 3: Debt to GDP Ratio, 1995 to 2021, with Emphasis on G7 - Using Flourish
With so many countries and years, a running bar total could help emphasize the larger ratios over the years, as well as draw emphasis to the G7 countries as they are what most would traditionally associate with countries with large economies. 
<div class="flourish-embed flourish-bar-chart-race" data-src="visualisation/14974124"><script src="https://public.flourish.studio/resources/embed.js"></script></div>

## Part 3.5: Compare/Contrast Different Methods of Visualizations
The chart from Part 1 is simple and direct; most, if not all, individuals have seen a bar chart and thus can rationalize that you can look at the numbers on the y-axis, the countries on the x-axis, and discern some information from where they connect. It's helpful in its simplicity but quickly loses that helpfullness as you add more data to it (years/countries). But it is great that OECD has this functionality at all. The chart from Part 2, in contrast to Part 1, is drastically more complicated to look at. It adds time to the data presented, so that one can theoretically see how the ratio value changes over a few decades for various countries. As a still image, this would not be very helpful, but due to it being a dynamic image where the viewer can hover over it and see specific data points, it becomes much more useful. At a glance, however, it remains a bit overwhelming and a bit difficult to discern what the takeaway information is. With these noted observations prior, that is why for Part 3 I used Flourish's running bar chart. It combines the simplicity of a bar chart with the helpfullness of a moving data set. It also helps the viewer focus on the top 10 or so countries with the largest ratios each year, which assists in the chart's overall message; overall, it helps the viewer see what countries are continuously at the top and allows for further investigation as some countries rapidly climb and fall off. Some next steps would maybe be to add some callouts to help explain these outlier movements.  
